Update LIP 0044 (#150)
LiskHQ/lips: proposals/lip-0044.md

`KEY_REG_RESULT_NO_MAINCHAIN` | uint32   | 3      | Failure result code of key registration events: chain is not the mainchain. |
`KEY_REG_RESULT_DUPLICATE_BLS_KEY` | uint32   | 4      | Failure result code of key registration events: BLS key already registered in the chain. |
`KEY_REG_RESULT_NO_UPDATE_BLS_KEY` | uint32   | 5      | Failure result code of key registration events: BLS keys cannot be updated. |
`KEY_REG_RESULT_INVALID_POP` | uint32   | 6      | Failure result code of key registration events: invalid proof of possession. |

### Type Definition

| Name               | Type    | Validation            | Description                     |
|--------------------|---------|-----------------------|---------------------------------|
| `Address` | bytes   | Must be of length 20. | Address of an account.   |
| `PublicKeyEd25519` | bytes | Must be of length 32. | Used for Ed25519 public keys. |
| `BLSKey` | bytes | Must be of length 48. | Used for BLS keys. |
| `ProofOfPossession` | bytes | Must be of length 96. | [The proof of possession associated with a BLS key][lip-0038#public-key-registration]. |

> 

Author: done

`BLOCK_TIME`                   | integer | 10 (value for the Lisk mainchain)                    | Block time (in seconds) set in the chain configuration.
`MAINCHAIN_ID`                 | bytes   | Value is specified in [LIP 0045][lip-0045#constants] | The chain ID of the mainchain as part of the interoperability module.
`TYPE_ID_GENERATOR_KEY_REGISTRATION` | bytes   | 0x0001      | Type ID of the generator key registration event. |
`TYPE_ID_BLS_KEY_REGISTRATION` | bytes   | 0x0002      | Type ID of the BLS key registration event. |
`KEY_REG_RESULT_SUCCESS` | uint32   | 0      | Success result code of key registration events. |
`KEY_REG_RESULT_NO_VALIDATOR` | uint32   | 1      | Failure result code of key registration events: address not registered as validator. |
`KEY_REG_RESULT_ALREADY_VALIDATOR` | uint32   | 2      | Failure result code of key registration events: address already registered as validator. |
`KEY_REG_RESULT_DUPLICATE_BLS_KEY` | uint32   | 3      | Failure result code of key registration events: BLS key already registered in the chain. |

> `KEY_REG_RESULT_NO_UPDATE_BLS_KEY` | uint32   | 4      | Failure result code of key registration events: BLS keys cannot be updated. |

Reviewer: There is no event with this type any more.

Author: removed

`KEY_REG_RESULT_NO_UPDATE_BLS_KEY` | uint32   | 5      | Failure result code of key registration events: BLS keys cannot be updated. |
`KEY_REG_RESULT_INVALID_POP` | uint32   | 6      | Failure result code of key registration events: invalid proof of possession. |
`ADDRESS_LENGTH`                     | uint32  | 20      | Length in bytes of type `Address`. |
`ED25519_PUBLIC_KEY_LENGTH`          | uint32  | 32      | Length in bytes of type `PublicKeyEd25519`. |

> `BLS_KEY_LENGTH`          | uint32  | 48      | Length in bytes of type `BLSKey`. |

Author: fixed

`BLS_POP_LENGTH`          | uint32  | 96      | Length in bytes of type `ProofOfPossession`. |

### Type Definition

| Name               | Type    | Validation            | Description                     |
|--------------------|---------|-----------------------|---------------------------------|
| `Address` | bytes   | Must be of length `ADDRESS_LENGTH`. | Address of an account.   |
| `PublicKeyEd25519` | bytes | Must be of length `ED25519_PUBLIC_KEY_LENGTH`. | Used for Ed25519 public keys. |

> | `BLSKey` | bytes | Must be of length `BLS_KEY_LENGTH`. | Used for BLS keys. |

Reviewer: See comment above. This would be also analogous to the Ed2559 type.

> | `BLSKey` | bytes | Must be of length `BLS_KEY_LENGTH`. | Used for BLS keys. |

Author: fixed

##### Properties and Default values

> The validator account holds the generator and BLS keys of a registered validator. In this section, we describe the properties of a validator account. These properties are set by the [`registerValidatorKeys` function](#registerValidatorKeys), called for instance during the processing of the [delegate registration command][lip-0057] or the [authority registration command][lip-0047].

Reviewer 2: improve link to registarValidatorKeys:   [registerValidatorKeys](#registerValidatorKeys) function

Author: The link is already present, not sure what you mean here.

* `generatorKey: ED25519_PUBLIC_KEY_LENGTH`: The public key whose corresponding private key is used to sign blocks generated by the validator.

> * `blsKey: BLSKey`: The validator BLS key is the public BLS key whose corresponding private key is used to sign certificates.

Reviewer: So far we only use type hinting for Python code mainly in order to skip validations for input parameters (e.g., byte length for IDs) and also to improve readability. I am not sure we should do this for schemas as well because all validations should already be part of the schema and the one sentence explanation should already clarify the type of data stored there.

Author: ok, I'll remove the hinting here

The genesis data substore stores the timestamp of the genesis block.

### Events

#### GeneratorKeyRegistration

This event has `typeID = TYPE_ID_GENERATOR_KEY_REGISTRATION`.

> This event is emitted when a generator key is registered.

Author: I added the short explanation to the event description

##### Topics

* `address`: The address for which the BLS key has been registered.

##### Data

```java
blsKeyRegDataSchema = {
    "type": "object",
    "required": ["blsKey", "result"],
    "properties": {
        "blsKey": {
            "dataType": "bytes",
            "length" : 48,
            "fieldNumber": 1
        },
        "result": {
            "dataType": "uint32",
            "fieldNumber": 2
        }
    }
}
```

### Commands

The Validators module does not specify any commands.

### Protocol Logic for Other Modules

#### registerValidatorKeys

This function creates a new validator account in the validators data substore. It is called as part of the [delegate registration][lip-0057] and [authority registration][lip-0047] commands that are part of the DPoS and PoA module.
It checks that there is no account already registered for the input `validatorAddress`, that the input BLS key `blsKey` has not been registered before in the chain, and that the input proof of possession `proofOfPossession` for the BLS key is valid. Finally, it creates a new validator account in the validators data substore and sets its generator key to the input `generatorKey`.

```python

> def registerValidatorKeys(validatorAddress: Address, proofOfPossession: ProofOfPossession, generatorKey: PublicKeyEd25519, blsKey: BLSKey) -> None:

Author: done

    if there exists an entry in the validators data substore with storeKey == validatorAddress:
        emitPersistentEvent(
            moduleID = MODULE_ID_VALIDATORS,
            typeID = TYPE_ID_GENERATOR_KEY_REGISTRATION,
            data = encode(
                schema = generatorKey,
                object = {
                    "generatorKey": generatorKey,

>                     "result": KEY_REG_RESULT_NO_VALIDATOR

Author: fixed

### Events

#### GeneratorKeyRegistration

This event has `typeID = TYPE_ID_GENERATOR_KEY_REGISTRATION`.
This event is emitted when a generator key is registered.
The event data contains the generator key `generatorKey` and the result of the registration `result`. 

##### Topics

* `address`: The address for which the generator key has been registered.

##### Data

```java
generatorKeyRegDataSchema = {
    "type": "object",
    "required": ["generatorKey", "result"],
    "properties": {
        "generatorKey": {
            "dataType": "bytes",
            "length" : ED25519_PUBLIC_KEY_LENGTH,
            "fieldNumber": 1
        },
        "result": {
            "dataType": "uint32",
            "fieldNumber": 2
        }
    }
}
```

#### BLSKeyRegistration

This event has `typeID = TYPE_ID_BLS_KEY_REGISTRATION`.
This event is emitted when a BLS key is registered.
The event data contains the BLS key `blsKey` and the result of the registration `result`.

##### Topics

* `address`: The address for which the BLS key has been registered.

##### Data

```java
blsKeyRegDataSchema = {
    "type": "object",
    "required": ["blsKey", "result"],
    "properties": {

>         "blsKey": {

Reviewer: What is the reason for having the key, but not the PoP here?

Author: true, it can be added for completness

        },
        topics=[validatorAddress]
    )
    emitEvent(
        moduleID = MODULE_ID_VALIDATORS,
        typeID = TYPE_ID_BLS_KEY_REGISTRATION,
        data = {
            "blsKey": blsKey,
            "result": KEY_REG_RESULT_SUCCESS
        },
        topics=[validatorAddress]
    )
```

The function [`PopVerify`][bls-specs-v4-popverify] is part of the [BLS signature scheme][lip-0038#public-key-registration].

#### registerValidatorWithoutBLSKey

This function creates a new validator account in the validators data substore, where the `blsKey` is set to `INVALID_BLS_KEY`. It is called as part of the [genesis block processing of the DPoS module][lip-0057] for the snapshot block used for the migration from Lisk Core 3 to Lisk Core 4. It should not be called on any other chain nor for any other block.
It checks that there is no account already registered for the input `validatorAddress`. Then, it creates a new validator account in the validators data substore, with `blsKey` set to `INVALID_BLS_KEY` and the generator key set to the input `generatorKey`. If this function is called on a chain that is not the mainchain, then this registration fails.

```python

> def registerValidatorWithoutBLSKey(validatorAddress: Address, generatorKey: PublicKeyEd25519) -> None:

Reviewer: I am now wondering whether it makes sense here to have events at all for this API, in particular, the failing events. This API should only be called during the Lisk Mainnet migration and if this call fails, the snapshot block is invalid. In case of successful block processing, we have to keep in mind that these will be a lot of events emitted by that block.

Author: makes sense. I will leave the check and error but remove the event.

    # If the chain is not the mainchain, let the registration fail
    if the chain is not the mainchain:

>         emitPersistentEvent(

Author: edited as discussed. We explicitly say this function is only on mainchain

            "generatorKey": generatorKey,
            "result": KEY_REG_RESULT_SUCCESS
        },
        topics=[validatorAddress]
    )
```

#### getValidatorAccount

This function is used to retrieve information about the validator account corresponding to the input `address: Address`.
It returns `validatorAccount(address)`. 
If there is no entry corresponding to `address`, it returns an empty object.

#### getGenesisData

This function is used to retrieve information about the genesis data.
It returns the data structure stored in the genesis data substore.

#### setValidatorBLSKey

This function sets the BLS key of a validator account. This update is only possible if the current BLS key of the validator is equal to a predefined constant invalid BLS key.
It checks that there exists a validator account registered for the input `validatorAddress`, that the input BLS key has not been registered before in the chain, that the BLS key of the validator account is equal to a certain constant invalid BLS key, and that the input proof of possession `proofOfPossession` for the BLS key is valid. Finally, it updates the BLS key of the validator account to the input `blsKey`.

```python

> def setValidatorBLSKey(validatorAddress: Address, proofOfPossession: ProofOfPossession, blsKey: BLSKey) -> None:

Reviewer: Although this is not in scope for this LIP update, I find the API naming in this LIP confusing. We use `register` and `set`, where `register` is setting a new key and `set` is modifying an existing key. I think something like `add` and `update` would be much more clear.

Reviewer: Moreover, in both cases we use a `Registration` event. I think it is fine to have one event for both adding / updating, but in relation to the API naming it leads to further confusion.

Author: we leave the terminology as is.

    if no entry in the validators data substore exist with storeKey == validatorAddress:
        emitPersistentEvent(
            moduleID = MODULE_ID_VALIDATORS,
            typeID = TYPE_ID_BLS_KEY_REGISTRATION,
            data = {
                "blsKey": blsKey,
                "result": KEY_REG_RESULT_NO_VALIDATOR
            },
            topics=[validatorAddress]
        )
        raise Exception('This address is registered as validator. Only validators can register a BLS key.')
    if there exists an entry in the registered BLS keys substore with storeKey == blsKey:
        emitPersistentEvent(
            moduleID = MODULE_ID_VALIDATORS,
            typeID = TYPE_ID_BLS_KEY_REGISTRATION,
            data = {
                "blsKey": blsKey,
                "result": KEY_REG_RESULT_DUPLICATE_BLS_KEY
            },
            topics=[validatorAddress]
        )
        raise Exception('This address is already registered as validator.')

>     if validatorAccount(validatorAddress).blsKey != INVALID_BLS_KEY:

Reviewer: Note that this check is already done in [LP 50](https://github.com/LiskHQ/lips/blob/main/proposals/lip-0050.md#verification-1) which is the only place this API is called. Would it make sense to allow BLS key updates in general for the future although write now we do not use this feature? At the moment it is odd that we allow generator key updates (although we do no use them as the would break the PoM), but forbid BLS key updates. As far as the Validator module is concerned, the BLS keys can be updated and nothing breaks here.

Author: after discussion, we remove the check

    validatorAccount(validatorAddress).blsKey = blsKey
    create an entry in the registered BLS keys data substore with storeKey = blsKey and storeValue = validatorAddress
    emitEvent(
        moduleID = MODULE_ID_VALIDATORS,
        typeID = TYPE_ID_BLS_KEY_REGISTRATION,
        data = {
            "blsKey": blsKey,
            "result": KEY_REG_RESULT_SUCCESS
        },
        topics=[validatorAddress]
    )
```

#### setValidatorGeneratorKey

This function sets the generator key of a validator account.
It checks that there exists a validator account registered for the input `validatorAddress` and then updates the generator key to the input `generatorKey`.

```python
def setValidatorGeneratorKey(validatorAddress: Address, generatorKey: PublicKeyEd25519) -> None:
    if no entry in the validators data substore exist with storeKey == validatorAddress:
        emitPersistentEvent(
            moduleID = MODULE_ID_VALIDATORS,
            typeID = TYPE_ID_GENERATOR_KEY_REGISTRATION,
            data = {
                "generatorKey": generatorKey,
                "result": KEY_REG_RESULT_NO_VALIDATOR
            },
            topics=[validatorAddress]
        )

>         raise Exception('This address is registered as validator. Only validators can register a generator key.')

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        raise Exception('This address is not registered as validator. Only validators can update a generator key.')
```

Author: fixed

    validatorAccount(validatorAddress).generatorKey = generatorKey

    emitEvent(
        moduleID = MODULE_ID_VALIDATORS,
        typeID = TYPE_ID_GENERATOR_KEY_REGISTRATION,
        data = {
            "generatorKey": generatorKey,
            "result": KEY_REG_RESULT_SUCCESS
        },
        topics=[validatorAddress]
    )
```

> #### getAddressFromBLSKey

Author: done

This function returns the address that registered the input BLS key `blsKey: BLSKey`.
It checks if an entry with store key equal to `blsKey` exists in the registered BLS keys substore. 
If this is the case, it returns the stored `address: Address`, else it throws an error.

> #### getGeneratorList

Reviewer: Just to have an explicit input and output type, I would add some pseudocode with type-hinting here as well.

This function returns the current generator list `generatorList`.

> #### getSlotNumber

Reviewer: Just to have an explicit input and output type, I would add some pseudocode with type-hinting here as well.

> #### setGeneratorList

Reviewer: I think it would be nicer to have code here to make also the exception explicit as it has implications for the state transitions.

Author: done
